>> Jason Pamental: At the heart of
designing from the content out,
is thinking about what is
the smallest element of content.
And for a text side, or a media side
of some kind, that's a paragraph.
I actually spent quite a bit
of time a few years ago,
I had written a talk that was really
just about the history of the paragraph.
And just kinda went through
the Evolution of it as a concept, and
an execution over the last
couple thousand years.
And it was really kind of interesting to
see, even going back to how a paragraph
indicator would have been represented
in Greek, in Ancient Greek.
Not modern Greek, but in Ancient Greek,
you can represent that in CSS today.
So it's actually kind of amazing how much
you can do with that atom of content.
So in this page,
we've got a few different things going on.
We've got maximum width,
we have an initial cap.
We also have some ligatures going on.
We've got proper quotation
marks that are being enforced,
we've got the Ink Script in
the underlining for the link there.
And there's a few things further
down in that sample page, but
I've really tried to kind of carry through
as many of these different techniques,
as applied to the paragraph, and
then kind of build out from there.
And you kinda focus in on
some of those details.
You can see how that
ligature comes together.
We also have things like making
sure there's proper hyphenation,
the section dividers, the initial bold
line of the first line of a paragraph.
Did anybody know that there's actually
a real pseudo selector in CSS to select
the first line of any element?
I mean, that's really, it's useful,
and it's a nice technique.
So any paragraph you could say,
first of type, first line, and it will do,
you style it however you like.
First of type, first letter
will get you the first letter.
Now, initial letter is
a selector that is coming,
it's only implemented in one browser so
far.
So it's a little hard to hang your
hat on that, it will be much better,
but we can use first of type,
first letter, and
get that same possibility.
And so, getting at all those details,
adding those things, layering them
on one after another, is what's going to
really take things to that next level.
So let's take a look at some of
those details in the CSS for
some of these pages we've been looking at.